In this section we'll learn what are the queries scopes inside the larval eloquent.
How can we use them.
And what are the benefits of them.
But before we do that let's fix an outstanding error in our application which is when we are authenticated
as a user.
And we try to add a blog post which seems to be valid and we press create.
We actually get an error and the error says that the user I feel doesn't have a default value which
of course it doesn't.
And you can see that it's not even trying to insert the user I.D. for the new blog post so this won't
happen automatically we have to specify a user I.D. When we create a new blog post.
So what we have here inside the store method of our post controller is the validated data array.
It is an array of data that have passed the validation the title and the content so we can add a user
I.D. field here
and now since we already have a request object here the request object contains a user method.
The user method would be the currently authenticated user if of course the user is out antiquated.
And since we make sure that the store End Point should only be available for our dedicated users we
can safely get that.
Now it's user I.D. not a user model.
So we have to read the I.D. property so we would think that this should work already but you might see
what is the problem here.
So let's open the blog post A.T..
Take a look at this field definition and think about if you can guess what would be the problem.
But before you do let's try it again.
So now we think we are assigning the user I.D. So let's press create and you can see that we are still
not providing the user I.D. even though we have said it to the validated data array.
So if you haven't guessed it is because when we pass all the properties at once.
So we are doing mass assignment.
This is this is what we are doing here.
We are passing all the attributes of a model in a single pass using an array all those attributes of
our model which we would like to be able to be passed using mass assignment has to be defined in the
field battlefield of the model.
So obviously user I.D. wasn't here.
So let's add it now save the changes
and now we should be fine.
So let's press create and you can see that we have a new blog post with the new flag that was other
a second ago.
Now if we'll go to the blog post lists you can see that this blog post is nowhere to be found.
Actually it is added at the very bottom of our list even though it is the most recent.
So you would probably assume that the blog posts that were added most recently should be at the top
not at the bottom.
And this is where we will start implementing the query scopes and you will see what great things you
can achieve by adding query scopes.
So let's begin our new section.